# Marcov-in-Chains

This was a fun little project! As some background, I enjoy noodling on FiveThirtyEight's weekly puzzle problem, [The Riddler](https://fivethirtyeight.com/tag/the-riddler/). The puzzle for the week of May 27th 2020 was as follows: 

> You start with a fair 6-sided die and roll it six times, recording the results of each roll. You then write these numbers on the six faces of another, unlabeled fair die. For example, if your six rolls were 3, 5, 3, 6, 1 and 2, then your second die wouldn’t have a 4 on it; instead, it would have two 3s.

>Next, you roll this second die six times. You take those six numbers and write them on the faces of yet another fair die, and you continue this process of generating a new die from the previous one.

>Eventually, you’ll have a die with the same number on all six faces. What is the average number of rolls it will take to reach this state?

>Extra credit: Instead of a standard 6-sided die, suppose you have an N-sided die, whose sides are numbered from 1 to N. What is the average number of rolls it would take until all N sides show the same number?

My first instinct was to run a simulation program I wrote, serveral thousand times. This got me the result of 9.64 turns (as it turns out I wasn't alone in this). However there is a better closed form solution that I didn't think about using Marcov chains and transition matrices (This returns a result of 9.656 turns).

This got me really interested and I ended up obsessing over the applications as they are really cool! Beyond solutions to fun math riddles, Markov chains have plenty of real world applications randing from use in sampling and bootstrap simulations, to simple predictive text algorithms such as the next word recomendation system in your phones messaging app.

## The project

This is a generative text program I built using R and Julia. I chose to use R becuase I am very familiar with R but was running up against speed constraints while generating bi-grams and sample pools from large corpora. Normally I would pull out some C++ but I have always wanted to use julia and this seemed like a good application. As an example enjoy this text I generated using the program from Alice in Wonderland  by Lewis Carol:

>"Alice asked Alice, every neatly and holding, in a louder tongue, Ma!” said Alice, and added the King. “Now, I give the hearth. At last it said,) and those cool fountains, without again, to sea as you liked them up, and ran off at once: one of them bowed low. “Wouldn’t it be Mabel, I’ll comfortable, but it does.” “It’s the snail replied “Too far, to passion, came a rumbling voice—the Rabbit, that are thinking directly round the words: “Where’s no pleased to be all day about it!” and the King. (The unfortunity of adding, thought it mustard in heard a voice of the bill, ‘French and green leaves that her she ought to have it explain it watch!” she answer to it?” “In that the Dodo managed? I suppose so,” said the Knave “Turn that cats or dogs either, Alice; “living would _not_ stand, with a table, with a trumpet in one, there than Alice could talk about here? Why, it _is_ the sluggard_,’” said Alice, “—and just as well as she was nothing between while the sea,” the convert to identify, do cats eat bats, I wonder who not solicitation requirement. See paragraphs .E. through this was surprised at once and the King seemed not gone across they were,” said the Cat went on, “and he sneeze, were the use in creating “_You are oldest rule in the last the distance, in a hurried of little pattering off a little history, Alice would be as well as she was room for three to them,” the Mock Turtle. “Certainly English. “I don’t much of a Project Gutenberg-tm elect to climb up on to you had been all the time with a defect in the wine,” the King in a growl, And conclusion of Project Gutenberg EBook of thing_ interesting it was, no wonder what the hedgehogs, the whole winter dropped the King. “She’d soon found the roof off.” After a whiting kind of sticks and the floor, and Alice. The King said, tossing the ink, that work is possessed in the United States, check the Project Gutenberg’s Alice’s Adventures in With no jury or judge, would have no sort of this time.) “You’re doing our best. Some of the experiment?” “Here! you may choose to her: its face only a mouse—to a mouse—O mouse!”) The long as I was terribly from any of equipment she quite a crowd of little the queeresting. “Then you to learn! No, I’ll look first, perhaps it was at the end of many more boldly: “you have read things are “much fright. “Oh, _pleased, and went to sea as you receive specified in a voice of the jurors.” She soon made from,” said the procession, called the act of crawling begin lessen from day to talk out of the United States and proofread with great eyes again, and held the fee as set forth in paragraph .F., the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation's EIN or furrows; the balls were like.” “I beg your pardon!” cried the Mock Turtle’s Story CHAPTER VIII. A Caucus-Race around, if you like to drop the chimney?—Nay, _I_ see!” said the Caterpillar. This piece of getting quite surprised at her format used if you received the well wait, as she passage into his corners: next that you can find a thing a Project Gutenberg EBook #] Last Updated editions will talk in compliance requirement violently the hedgehog to, and, as she would bread-and-butter, and the moment he was said Alice appeared all about among mad—at least idea came alive within here and more puzzled, but it makes rather unwilling me next to her, though you manage it?) “And yet what a funny watch!” she remark. It looked at each the key was took no notice think: was I do,” Alice recovered and the Mock Turtle at last!” said the places!” shouted the Queen, which way she put them round face, and expenses, including obsolete, old, middle-aged and near the look of cards!” At this eBook or a replacement copy it, give it away into it: it was perfectly round, to make the Owl and they were perfectly into that lovely gardeners were ornamented all that is enough yet—and you do or corrupt data, transcribe and processions; “and things of the Tarts? CHAPTER II. The Queen whiles.” “Then you shouldn’t begin.” But she wanted leading run over; and whiskers! She’ll get me executioner, and any other promised to be no change the subject of certainly English coast you finished the strange crowd collected angrily at the Queen had our Dinah here, and I wish to other of them were and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.” “I shall have come back into the laws in most comply with a little queer, won’t be kind of thought at first she was obliged to work and the twinkling! Half-past one sides of short charges at the way up as they walked on in a voice sounded an egg!” “I _have_ my shoulder as a part of the work. You couldn’t it be manage on to them, that it ought to sea as you were filled with the trouble myself to say it out-of-the-way things in the directed by copyright into a graceful zigzag, and then the exclusion of the well, and ending without coming to get in?” “They couldn’t have been to the best way you deserved to be no sort of meaning of the creatures,” you see, Miss, who se"
